#summary Package: wam_node - Barrett WAM / BarrettHand specific robot node.

= wam_node =

This Package contains Barrett WAM / !BarrettHand control functionality.

 * Author: Kyle Maroney
 * License: BSD
 * Repository: gwam-ros-pkg
 * Source: svn https://gwam-ros-pkg.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wam/wam_robot/wam_node

*The wam_node is the primary communication node between the WAM / !BarrettHand and ROS.*

*This node is designed to be launched on the WAM only!*

The wam_node was designed to abstract the Libbarrett functionality exposed by the [http://code.google.com/p/gwam-ros-pkg/wiki/GWAMPackagelibbarrett_ros libbarrett_ros package] into a simple, fully functional ROS node.  Allowing for both real-time and non real-time control of the Barrett WAM.

The wam_node package is self aware of robot configuration.  This means that if you have a 7-dof WAM configuration but want to use the robot without the !BarrettHand the wam_node will take care of this.  Not publishing or subscribing to the services and messages available for a WAM with a !BarrettHand.

*Starting the wam_node*
{{{
roslaunch wam_bringup wam_real.launch
}}}

== __Interaction with the WAM / !BarrettHand__ == 

=== The WAM Node Publishes the following topics (default: 100Hz) ===

wam/joint_states - Publishes the current angle in radians for each joint present on the wam.

wam/pose - Publishes the current pose (cartesian position and orientation).

bhand/joint_states - Publishes the current angle in radians for each joint of the !BarrettHand.

=== The WAM Node Subscribes to the following topics - primarily for RT Control (up to 500Hz) ===

(TBD) wam/joint_pos_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTJointPos_

(TBD) wam/joint_vel_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTJointVel_

(TBD)wam/cart_pos_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTCartPos_

wam/cart_vel_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTCartVel_

(TBD)wam/ortn_pos_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTOrtnPos_

wam/ortn_vel_cmd _- type wam_msgs/RTOrtnVel_  


=== The WAM Node offers the following Service Calls ===

*WAM*

wam/gravity_comp _- type wam_srvs/!GravityComp_

wam/go_home _- type std_srvs/Empty_

wam/hold_joint_pos _- type wam_srvs/Hold_

wam/hold_cart_pos _- type wam_srvs/Hold_

wam/hold_ortn _- type wam_srvs/Hold_

wam/joint_move _- type wam_srvs/!JointMove_

(TBD) wam/pose_move _- type wam_srvs/!PoseMove_

wam/cart_move _- type wam_srvs/!CartPosMove_

wam/ortn_move _- type wam_srvs/!OrtnMove_

*!BarrettHand*

bhand/open_grasp _- type std_srvs/Empty_

bhand/close_grasp _- type std_srvs/Empty_

bhand/open_spread _- type std_srvs/Empty_

bhand/close_spread _- type std_srvs/Empty_

bhand/finger_pos _- type wam_srvs/BHandFingerPos_

bhand/grasp_pos _- type wam_srvs/BHandGraspPos_

bhand/spread_pos _- type wam_srvs/BHandSpreadPos_

bhand/finger_vel _- type wam_srvs/BHandFingerVel_

bhand/grasp_vel _- type wam_srvs/BHandGraspVel_

bhand/spread_vel _- type wam_srvs/BHandSpreadVel_